# CS 390 Game Studio Preproduction
---

This is the first course in a three-course capstone experience for students in the Game Design & Development Concentration. At the end of this first class, you and your teammates will pitch a game to a board of industry professionals. This pitch will consist of a vertical slice, a game design macro, and a schedule. Projects approved by the board will be moved into production next academic year. At the end of production, they will be published to Steam.

Explore the pre-production process of videogame development by investigating technical, artistic, feasibility, and methodological aspects. Rapidly prototype videogame ideas in order to discover practicable concepts. Form multidisciplinary teams to build a publicly showcased vertical slice.


## Course Information
-----
**Instructor** 
Travis Faas

Office: RB 480
Email: travis.faas@bsu.edu

Office hours: Tuesday / Thursday 3-5pm


**Prerequisite**
For CS390: CS215 or CS315 (CS315 is strongly recommended)
For ART440: ART341


## Learning Outcomes

By the end of this course, a student will be able to:

- Identify and evaluate factors that contribute to the potential business success for videogames, such  as choice of tools, platform, genre, and distribution method
- Rapidly prototype game software concepts in order to identify good mechanisms for original games
- Collaborate across disciplinary backgrounds to develop game concepts into high-fidelity prototypes or vertical slices
- Develop and present a videogame production plan

## Schedule
----

[outlined here](schedule.md)

## Grading

- Reading reflections ( 5pts x 10 ) (50pts)
- Game prototypes ( 10pts x 4 ) ( 40pts )
- Production log journals ( 5pts x 10 ) ( 50pts )
- Group evaluations ( 10pts x 2 ) ( 20pts )
- Group milestone and playtest submissions ( 10pts x 4 ) ( 40pts )
- Final presentation ( 30pts )
- Production check-ins ( 2pts x 10 ) ( 20pts )
- Vertical slice ( 70pts )
- Mystery point ( 1pt x 1 ) ( 1 point ) (mystery) ( the existence of the mystery point is unprovable by science but many believe in its existence )

320 points total
( though the existence of the mystery points throws this all into question  )


## Other

### Academic Integrity

Students and faculty are bound by the Student Academic Ethics Policy of the Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities.

### Notice for Students with Disabilities
If you need course adaptations or accommodations because of a disability, please contact me as soon as possible. The Office of Disability Services coordinates services for students with disabilities; documentation of a disability needs to be on file in that office before any accommodations can be provided. Disability Services can be contacted at 765-285-5293 or dsd@bsu.edu.

### Diversity Statement
Ball State University aspires to be a university that attracts and retains a diverse faculty, staff, and student body. We are committed to ensuring that all members of the community are welcome, through valuing the various experiences and worldviews represented at Ball State and among those we serve. We promote a culture of respect and civil discourse as expressed in our Beneficence Pledge and through university resources found here.